# TrendAnalysisOnDataScienceJobs
In this modern era, every device you use generates data. With more devices being launched every day and more of the world’s population learning these technologies, the user generated data is constantly increasing. To get these data in an usable format, professions such as Data Analyst, Business Analyst, Data Scientist, and Data Engineers have emerged. These professions are not emerging only in the Information Technology (IT) industries, but in various industry verticals such as Healthcare sector, Financial & Insurance Institutions, Business Services, Government services, and Manufacturing Industries. There are different tasks involved in utilizing the data generated in each of these domains that is further used for their business improvement and customer satisfaction. Each of these tasks are done by different professions and each one has its own skills requirements. As there are different skill requirements, there is a noticeable difference in the pay grade. To analyze all the discussed aspects above, we have created a Tableau Dashboard that shows the number of job openings in various professions of data science and openings at different locations in the United States, Industry Sectors using Data Science, skills requirements for these jobs, and the pay grade for various positions.
To create a Dashboard which gives current insights, a large dataset with all the required features is required. If a dataset is old, it would not show the recent changes in the job scenario. Thus, the various challenges to create a meaningful dashboard becomes: (1) Scrape the current job openings data for different locations and for all the four positions from the web, (2) Extract required features from the job descriptions, (3) Perform data wrangling and make it ready to use for Tableau, and (4) Create various Tableau visual charts to give insights. When all these challenges are solved, the result is a Tableau Dashboard that gives information about the various positions that is helpful for a person in selecting a job type that aligns with the skills, location, and interests.
